Copyright Bill Triggs (http://www.inrialpes.fr/movi/people/Triggs),
INRIA (http://www.inria.fr) and CNRS (http://www.cnrs.fr),
1995-2002. All rights reserved.

You may use and distribute [*] this work with or without modification,
for any purpose and without fee or royalty, subject to the following
conditions:

1. This work is provided "as is" by the copyright holders, with
absolutely no warranties of correctness, fitness, intellectual property
ownership, or anything else whatsoever.  You use and distribute the work
entirely at your own risk.  The copyright holders will not be liable for
any legal damages whatsoever connected with the use or distribution of
this work.

2. The copyright holders retain all copyright to the work. All copies of
the work and all works derived from it must contain (1) this copyright
notice, and (2) additional notices describing the content, dates and
copyright holders of modifications or additions made to the work, if
any, including distribution and use conditions and intellectual property
claims.  Derived works must be clearly distinguished from the original
work, both by name and by the prominent inclusion of explicit
descriptions of overlaps and differences.

3. The names and trademarks of the copyright holders may not be used in
advertising or publicity related to this work without specific prior
written permission. 

4. In return for the free use of this work, you are requested, but not
legally required, to do the following:

- If you become aware of factors that may significantly affect other
  users or distributors of the work, for example major bugs or
  deficiencies or possible intellectual property issues, you are
  requested to report them to the copyright holders, if possible
  including redistributable fixes or workarounds.

- If you use the work in scientific research or as part of a larger
  software system, you are requested to cite the use in any related
  publications or technical documentation, and to notify the copyright
  holders of this.


[*] `Use and distribute' denotes any use whatsoever including
downloading, compilation, execution, copying, modification and
distribution in any form including source files and derived works such
as executable programs and libraries, of all or any portion of this
work, including software, documentation and data.
